Rip Van Winkle
This story is about Rip Van Winkle, a good-natured 
but lazy man, who goes away into the hills and 
falls asleep. When he awakens twenty years later, 
Rip finds that quite a few things have changed!
Marigold
78
Unit 5
Many years ago, at the foothills of the Kaatskill (Kat-skill) 
mountains,  was  a  little  village.  In  the  village  lived  a 
simple, good-natured fellow named Rip Van Winkle. He 
was a kind neighbour, ready to help anyone. Everyone in 
the village liked him. The children of the village shouted 
with joy whenever they saw him because he played with 
them, he taught them to fly kites and shoot marbles, and 
told them long stories.

The only problem with Rip was that he was very lazy. 
He did no work on his own farm and just idled away his 
time. His fences were falling to pieces. His cow was going 
astray.  Weeds  grew  on  his  farm.  Rip's  constant 
companion was his dog, named Wolf. To avoid work, he 
would walk away into the forest with his dog.

One day, Rip just walked on and on and reached the 
highest  part  of  the  mountains.  It  was  late  in  the 
afternoon when he reached there. Tired after his long 
climb, he lay down and began daydreaming. It was soon 
evening and he realised it would be night by the time he 
reached his village.

Suddenly,  he  heard  a  voice  calling  out,  "Rip  Van 
Winkle, Rip Van Winkle!" He looked around and saw a 
short,  old  man,  with  thick  hair  and  a  grizzled  beard 
walking towards him with a barrel. He made signs to help 
him carry the barrel. Rip hurried to help the stranger who 
caught  his  hand  tightly.  Together 
they reached a place where there 
were  some  more  odd  looking 
men,  playing  ninepins.  They 
were  all  dressed  the  same 
way  and  all  of  them  had 
beards  of  various  shapes 
and  colours.  Even  though 
they  were  playing  a  game, 
their faces were serious and 
there was silence! The only sound was the noise of the 
balls, which echoed in the mountains like thunder.

As  Rip  and  his  companion  reached  them,  they 
stopped playing and stared at Rip with a fixed gaze. Rip 
was  really  frightened.  His  companion  emptied  the 
contents of the barrel into glasses and made Rip drink it. 
Rip obeyed as he was trembling with fear. Since he was 
thirsty he drank a few more glasses and slowly fell into a 
deep sleep.

On  waking  up,  he  found  that  he  was  at  the  place 
where he had first met the old man. He rubbed his eyes —  
it was a bright sunny morning. "Surely, I have not slept 
here all night," thought Rip. 

He looked around for Wolf, but he was nowhere. Rip 
whistled for him. "Wolf! Wolf!" he then shouted. No dog 
was to be seen. "Where has this dog gone?" he muttered 
to himself. He began to descend the mountain to go back 
to his village. 

As he neared the village, he met a number of people 
but he didn't know any of them. The villagers also stared 
at him equally surprised. "Who is this man?" said one. 
"I've never seen him before," said another, "look at his 
long white beard and his wrinkled face."

On  hearing  this,  Rip  stroked  his  chin  and,  to  his 
astonishment, he found his beard had grown a foot long, 
and it was all white!

An old woman walked up to him and looked at his face 
for  a  moment.  Then  she  exclaimed  —  "It  is  Rip  Van 
Winkle! Welcome home again, old neighbour! Where have 
you been these twenty long years?

(Adapted from The legend of Rip Van Winkle 
by Washington Irving)

[Exercise sections omitted for brevity]

